The Hamas attacks have caused
a significant shift here
in Israel
among many and the ultra-Orthodox
Jewish community.
Traditionally, they refuse
to sign up for military service,
which is mandatory
for most men and women
in Israel after their 18th birthday.
But that's changing.
After the October 7th Hamas attack
that killed 1400 men, women and children.
A limitation they want to see made about.
Moti.
Lightner reads
the Torah at least an hour every day.
Decision on his family as one of the 1.2
million ultra-Orthodox Jews or Hassidim
who live here in Israel for decades.
Many in his community
have fought against Israel's
mandatory military service
for every Jewish Israeli man and woman.
As soon as they turn 18.
This year, the ultra-Orthodox
tried to get a law passed
to exempt them from having to enlist.
A major source of friction
in Israeli society.
Then October 7th happened.
Have you ever fired a weapon
and picked up a weapon before? No.
I never heard the gun.
Something like this.
That is about to change in.
The few days
I will go to the Israeli army.
Leitner enlisted
after the murderous attack
by Hamas on men,
women and children in Israel.
That killed 12 as Israel then.
It completely shook
us, Broke all conceptions, he says.
We thought we had the privilege
to stand at the side and not be part of.
And now we realize
it's just not sustainable.
He says most of the ultra-Orthodox here
believe their jobs are to keep
the Jewish religion
alive and well, spending their days
studying the Torah.
But often
because the Israeli military
reported between 2019 and 2021,
only about 1200 or so ultra-Orthodox Jews
were conscripted annually.
That's out of 12,000
potential applicants.
Why did the Hassidim, the ultra-Orthodox,
not want to serve in the Army?
It was. Silly.
The ultra-Orthodox people in Israel
have an ethos, according
to which studying
Torah gives the nation
a metaphysical layer of defense, he says.
So if it's my home issue,
a lot of them are not.
But he says he cannot see
how that is enough now.
And he says he knows many other Hassidim
feel the same.
It's part of the same.
I personally sat in my living room
and just cried for a day.
We can't just go on with our daily lives.
We said, never again.
After the Holocaust.
And if we want to be able
to say that again to next generations
and promise our children
a sustainable future,
we have to solve this issue.
In Hebrew, this sign says,
Together we will win.
It's very rare
to see this kind of
nationalistic language
in ultra-Orthodox
neighborhoods like this one in Israel.
You're also seeing a lot of Israeli
flags plastered all over the place.
That just doesn't really happen
during normal times.
It gives you some sense
that opinions among the ultra-Orthodox
have changed in a bit.
Infanti, writing
his wife's
opinion, has certainly changed,
but she does worry about one thing.
I worry more
if we don't know how to hold a weapon.
And I also want to know
how do I want a license for a gun?
Also, there is a role.
You know, we are not in Switzerland.
There is one more difficult thing
he has to do with his family
before he goes to serve.
Tell his children Yehuda.
Elizabeth and Abigail.
Nine, seven and six years old.
They play oblivious to the changes
they're about to experience
at home due to war.
Now, Moti Lightner is not the
only member of his family
that is going to go enlist.
He has enlisted
and so has his twin brother who lives
in California.
His twin brother is leaving
there to come to Israel.
They hope to go into the armed forces
together.